Conceptual
1. For each of parts (a) through (d), indicate whether we would generally
expect the performance of a flexible statistical learning method to be
better or worse than an inflexible method. Justify your answer.

(a) The sample size n is extremely large, and the number of predictors p is small.

I think generally it would be expected that when the sample size n is extremenly large and the number of predictors is small, a more flexible method would be preferred because it would be easier to see the relationship between a predictor and the associated response


(b) The number of predictors p is extremely large, and the number of observations n is small.

I think when there are a large number of predictors p and a small set of observations n it would be better to use an inflexible method to ensure that the relationship between the predictor and response is


(c) The relationship between the predictors and response is highly non-linear.

When the relationship is highly non-linear, we can reduce errors in predicting by using a more flexible approach which would be better

(d) The variance of the error terms, i.e. σ2 = Var(ϵ), is extremely high.

Page 35 describes a scenario where more flexible methods generally have a higher variance that inflexible methods.  If the Variance of the error terms is extremely high then it may be better to use a more inflexible method to reduce the variance of the error terms




2. Explain whether each scenario is a classification or regression problem, and indicate whether we are most interested in inference or prediction. Finally, provide n and p.

(a) We collect a set of data on the top 500 firms in the US. For each
firm we record profit, number of employees, industry and the
CEO salary. We are interested in understanding which factors
affect CEO salary.

I believe this is a regression problem as we are trying to predict the quantitative salary of CEOs
n=500
p=[profit, number of employees, industry, CEO salary]


(b) We are considering launching a new product and wish to know
whether it will be a success or a failure. We collect data on 20
similar products that were previously launched. For each product we have recorded whether it was a success or failure, price
charged for the product, marketing budget, competition price,
and ten other variables.

This will be a classification problem and we are most interested in inferencing whehter the product will be a success based on previous successes.
n=20
p=[success or failure, price charged for the product, marketing budget, competition price, and ten other variables]


(c) We are interested in predicting the % change in the USD/Euro
exchange rate in relation to the weekly changes in the world
stock markets. Hence we collect weekly data for all of 2012. For
each week we record the % change in the USD/Euro, the %
change in the US market, the % change in the British market,
and the % change in the German market.

This is a regression problem and we are interested in predicting the future of the exchange rate.
n = 52 weeks of data
p = [% change in the USD/Euro, the % change in the US market, the % change in the British market, and the % change in the German market]

